1. Physical
The first OSI model layer describes the physical connections between devices in a network.
Electrical, optic, or electromagnetic signal data moves from device to device through the physical infrastructure defined by this layer.
protocol -RS232, 100BaseTX, ISDN, 11.  

2. The Data Link Layer
The second OSI model layer describes data transmission between network devices.
Data is sent in packets within a frame of special bit patterns or codes that indicate the beginning and end of each packet.
These packets move through switches that route information through the physical layer from one physical location to another.
protocol -RAPA, PPP, Frame Relay, ATM, Fiber Cable, etc.
  
 3. The Network Layer
The third of the OSI layers organizes and transmits data between multiple networks.
Network layer hardware includes routes, bridge routers, 3-layer switches, and protocols such as Internet (IPv4) Protocol version 4 and Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6). 
protocol -IPV5, IPV6, ICMP, IPSEC, ARP, MPLS.
  
 4. The Transport Layer
This layer deals with sending and delivering of complete and reliable data from one device to another through a network or between networks.
Common transport layer protocols include the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) for connection-oriented data transmission 
and the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) for connectionless data transmission. 
protocol -TCP, UDP  

5. The Session Layer
This OSI Model layer concerns itself with managing session links between network devices with a specific beginning and end. 
The essential functions include establishing a link to start the session, authenticating senders and receivers, authorizing communications between devices and apps, 
maintaining the session, and terminating the connection, which are the key functions.  
protocol -NetBIOS, SAP.  

6. The Presentation Layer
Data flows as packets of code, often encrypted, through networks. Presenting it in a useful format is the focus of the sixth OSI model layer.
protocol -MPEG, ASCH, SSL, TLS  

7. The Application Layer
The top layer of the OSI 7 layer model is the application layer. It is how a user application, such as a website, browser, email, instant messaging,
file transfers, or voice-over IP, interfaces with the network.
Think of it as the window for accessing the network to send or display data, which can be anything from a picture of your pet cat to a database of statistics to a voice message.  
protocol-SMTP, HTTP, FTP, POP3, SNMP.
  
  
